= Module =

<source lang="python3">
def folder_cleaning(folderPath:str, filePattern:str):
    # This module aims to cleanup any folder ,
    # but with patterns in filenames.
    
    # folderPath  : path of folder to clean
    # filePattern : criteria on files to delete or not
    
    ## => help : to delete text and csv files, pattern will be :
    ## =>         '\.txt|\.csv'
    
    import pandas as pd, os
    
    # Listing files in directory
    fileList = [os.path.join(root, name) \
        for root, dirs, files in os.walk(folderPath) \
        for name in files]
    
    # Applying criteria to only delete specific files
    if len(fileList) > 0:
        targetList = pd.Series(fileList)\
            [pd.Series(fileList).str.contains(rf'{filePattern}')].values
        
        for cible in targetList:
            os.remove(cible)
</source>

= Example =

<source lang="python3">
folderPath = '/home/mleborgne/test'
filePattern = '\.txt|\.csv'

folder_cleaning(folderPath, filePattern)
</source>

<source>
'''Before:'''
-rw-r--r--. 1 mleborgne mleborgne    0 21 sept. 17:16 blabla.csv
-rw-r--r--. 1 mleborgne mleborgne    0 21 sept. 17:16 blabla.txt
-rw-r--r--. 1 mleborgne mleborgne    0 21 sept. 17:16 csv.notdeleted
-rw-r--r--. 1 mleborgne mleborgne    0 21 sept. 17:16 txt.notdeleted

'''After:'''
-rw-r--r--. 1 mleborgne mleborgne    0 21 sept. 17:16 csv.notdeleted
-rw-r--r--. 1 mleborgne mleborgne    0 21 sept. 17:16 txt.notdeleted
</source>

<source lang="python3">
    # ATTENTION
folderPath = '/home/mleborgne/test'
filePattern = '\.txt|.csv'

 # Here, the ".csv" without "\" means any character (the ".") following by "csv"
 # See REGEX (regular expressions) documentation

folder_cleaning(folderPath, filePattern)
</source>

<source>
'''After:'''
-rw-r--r--. 1 mleborgne mleborgne    0 21 sept. 17:16 txt.notdeleted
</source>

= Explanation =

This module aims to cleanup any folder of your project, by deleting files following specific pattern. </br>
This can be your output folder in the case your restart any script.

What it does is :
* '''importing modules''' pandas and os ;
* '''listing files''' in the folder specified by folderPath ;
* '''filtering files''' following a specific pattern ;
* '''deleting files''' which follow this pattern.

Thus, it needs the following input :
* folderPath, the path of files in a string variable ;
* filePattern, the pattern criteria to delete files, as a string variable. Be aware it uses REGEX (regular expressions), thus it seems complicated in terms of syntax, even though it is extremely powerful.
